---
permalink: /guides/working-with-pipelines/
layout: guide-markdown
title: Working with pipelines
duration: 30 minutes
releasedate: 2020-02-19
description: Explore how to use Pipelines with Application Stacks
tags: ['Pipelines, Application stacks']
guide-category: pipelines
---

<!-- Note:
> This repository contains the guide documentation source. To view
> the guide in published form, view it on the [website](https://kabanero.io/guides/{projectid}.html).
-->

<!--
//
//	Copyright 2019, 2020 IBM Corporation and others.
//
//	Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
//	you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
//	You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//	http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
//	Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
//	distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
//	WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
//	See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
//	limitations under the License.
//
-->

## Introduction

[Pipelines](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/tree/master/docs#usage) enable a continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) workflow. A set of default tasks and pipelines are provided that can be associated with application stacks. These pipelines leverage steps and tasks that provide the following capabilities:
- build the application stack
- enforce the governance policy
- publish the image to a container registry
- scan the published image
- sign the image
- retag an image
- deploy the application to the Kubernetes cluster
- promote a service to a GitOps repository (This feature is Tech Preview in this release)
- deploy a complete microservice scenario using Kustomize (This feature is Tech Preview in this release)

You can also create your own tasks and pipelines and customize the pre-built pipelines and tasks. All tasks and pipelines are activated by the product operator.

To learn more about pipelines and creating new tasks, see [the pipeline tutorial](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/blob/master/docs/tutorial.md).

## Kabanero tasks and pipelines

A set of Kabanero tasks and pipelines are provided in the [Kabanero pipelines repository](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/tree/master/pipelines/). Details of some of the primary pipelines and tasks are described in the following sections.

### Events pipelines

The tasks and pipelines provided in the [Kabanero pipelines repository events directory](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/tree/master/pipelines/incubator/events) are geared to work with the Kabanero events operator. Follow the instructions in the [Integrating the events operator](../integrating-events-operator/integating-events-operator.html) guide to set up the organization webhook and EventMediator to drive these pipelines.

There are four primary pipelines that help illustrate the following work flow:

1. **A developer makes an update to the application and creates a new pull request**

    This action triggers the [build-pl](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/events/build-pl.yaml) pipeline, which builds the application code and builds the application image using the [build-task](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/events/build-task.yaml). The pull request (PR) is updated with the results of the build pipeline.

2. **The pull request is then merged into the master branch**

    This action triggers the [build-push-promote-pl.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/events/build-push-promote-pl.yaml) pipeline, which completes the following tasks:

      * enforces the governance policy
      * builds the code
      * signs the image (optional)
      * pushes the image to the image registry
      * scans the image
      * deploys the image on the cluster (optional)
      * promotes the service to the configured GitOps repository (optional).  

    The pipeline invokes the following tasks to accomplish these steps:
      * [build-push-promote-task.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/events/build-push-promote-task.yaml):
        This task runs a pre-build governance policy check to validate that the stack version in the application repository is allowed to build, based on the governance policy that is configured. If successful, a container image is built from the artifacts in the GitHub source repository by using the `appsody build` command. This command leverages [Buildah](https://github.com/containers/buildah) to build the image and generates the `app-deploy.yaml` that is used for deployment. If there is already a copy of the `app-deploy.yaml` file in the source repository, it is merged with the new one generated by this step. After the image is built, the image is signed if signing has  been configured. For more information on configuring image signing, which is an optional step, see the [image signing operator](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-security/tree/master/pipelines/samples/signing-operator). The image is then pushed to the configured image registry.

        **(Tech preview feature)** A `ConfigMap` called `gitops-map` in the Kabanero namespace can optionally be configured to promote the service to a GitOps repository after the build.  This step invokes the [`services promote`](https://github.com/rhd-gitops-example/services) command to create a PR with the updated `app-deploy.yaml` file in the configured GitOps repository. The following key value pairs should be setup in the `ConfigMap`:
        ```
        kind: ConfigMap
        apiVersion: v1
        metadata:
          name: gitops-map
          namespace: kabanero
        data:
          gitops-repository-url: <can be specified here if common for all the pipelines in the cluster or in the event mediator for specific versions of the pipeline>
          gitops-repository-type: <github,gitlab,ghe>
          gitops-commit-user-name: <user_name_to_commit_using>
          gitops-commit-user-email: <user_email_to_commit_using>
        ```

        A secret called `gitops-token` must also be created in the Kabanero namspace. The following example yaml creates the secret.
        ```
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Secret
        metadata:
          name: gitops-token
        annotations:
          tekton.dev/git-0: https://github.com
        namespace: kabanero
        type: kubernetes.io/basic-auth
        stringData:
          username: <gitops_repo_username>
          password: <gitops_repo_access_token>
        ```

      * [deploy-task.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/events/deploy-task.yaml):
        If the `webhooks-tekton-local-deploy` property is set to `true` in the mediator, the image is deployed to the namespace configured in the `app-deploy.yaml`. By default, the application is deployed in the `kabanero` namespace.

      * [image-scan-task.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/events/image-scan-task.yaml):
        The `image-scan-task` task initiates a container scan of the image published by the `build-push-task` using OpenSCAP. The results of the scan are published in the logs of the task.

3. **A release of the application is created**

    This event triggers the [image-retag-pl.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/events/image-retag-pl.yaml) pipeline, which leverages the [image-retag-task.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/events/image-retag-task.yaml) to create a new tag of the image to match with the git release.

4. **(Tech preview feature) The pull request in the GitOps repository is merged**

    When the PR that was created by the promote step of the `build-push-promote-pl` is merged in the GitOps repository, it triggers the [deploy-kustomize-pl.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/events/deploy-kustomize-pl.yaml) pipeline, which leverages the [deploy-kustomize-task.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/events/deploy-kustomize-task.yaml) to trigger a deployment to the environment configured in the GitOps repository.

### Incubator pipelines

The set of Kabanero tasks and pipelines that are provided in the [Kabanero pipelines repository](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/tree/master/pipelines/incubator) illustrate work flows that work best with the Tekton webhooks extension.

Details of some of the primary pipelines and tasks:

- [build-deploy-pl.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/build-deploy-pl.yaml)

    This is the primary pipeline that showcases a majority of the tasks supplied in the Kabanero pipelines incubator repository. It enforces governance policy, builds the code, optionally signs the image, pushes it to the image registry, scans the image, and can conditionally deploy the image on the cluster. When running the pipeline via a webhook, the pipeline leverages the triggers functionality to conditionally deploy the application only when a pull request is merged in the GitHub repository. Other actions that trigger the pipeline run enforce governance policy, build, push, and scan the image.

- [build-push-task.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/build-push-task.yaml)

   This file builds a container image from the artifacts in the git-source repository by using `appsody build`. The appsody build command leverages the [Buildah](https://github.com/containers/buildah) options. After the image is built, the image is published to the configured container registry. The build-push-task also generates the `app-deploy.yaml` that is used by the `deploy-task`. If there is already a copy of the `app-deploy.yaml` file in the source repository, it is merged with the new one generated by this step.

   To enable image signing, please refer to the [image signing operator](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-security/tree/master/pipelines/samples/signing-operator) documentation.

- [deploy-task.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/deploy-task.yaml)

   `Deploy-task` uses the `app-deploy.yaml` file to deploy the application to the cluster by using the application deployment operator. By default, the pipelines run and deploy the application in the `kabanero` namespace. If you want to deploy the application in a different namespace, update the `app-deploy.yaml` file to point to that namespace.

- [image-scan-task.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/incubator/image-scan-task.yaml)

   The `image-scan-task` task initiates a container scan of the image published by the `build-push-task` using OpenSCAP. The results of the scan are published in the logs of the task.

For more tasks and pipelines, see the [kabanero-pipelines repository](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines).

### Experimental GitOps pipelines (Tech Preview)

There are two pipelines in the the experimental GitOps directory that demonstrate GitOps workflows when using the Tekton webhooks extension.

The [build-push-promote-pl.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/experimental/gitops/build-push-promote-pl.yaml) pipeline runs the following tasks:
  * enforces the governance policy
  * builds the code
  * signs the image (optional)
  * pushes the image to the image registry
  * scans the image
  * promotes the service to the configured GitOps repository (optional)  

The pipeline invokes the following tasks to accomplish the steps listed:
  * [build-push-promote-task.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/experimental/gitops/build-push-promote-task.yaml): This task first does a pre-build governance policy check to validate the stack version in the application repository is allowed to build based on the governance policy that is configured. It then builds a container image from the artifacts in the git-source repository by using `appsody build`. The appsody build command leverages [Buildah](https://github.com/containers/buildah) to build the image. The image is then optionally signed and pushed to the configured image registry.

    A `configmap` file called `gitops-map` in the Kabanero namespace can optionally be configured to promote the service to a GitOps repository after the build.  The step will invoke the [`services promote`](https://github.com/rhd-gitops-example/services) command to create a PR with the updated `app-deploy.yaml` file in the configured GitOps repository. The following key value pairs should be set up in the `configmap` file:
    ```
    kind: ConfigMap
    apiVersion: v1
    metadata:
      name: gitops-map
      namespace: kabanero
    data:
      gitops-repository-url: <can be specified here if common for all the pipelines in the cluster or in the event mediator for specific versions of the pipeline>
      gitops-repository-type: <github,gitlab,ghe>
      gitops-commit-user-name: <user_name_to_commit_using>
      gitops-commit-user-email: <user_email_to_commit_using>
    ```

    A secret called `gitops-token` also has to be created in the Kabanero namspace. This example yaml creates the secret:
    ```
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
      name: gitops-token
    annotations:
      tekton.dev/git-0: https://github.com
    namespace: kabanero
    type: kubernetes.io/basic-auth
    stringData:
      username: <gitops_repo_username>
      password: <gitops_repo_access_token>
    ```
  * [image-scan-task.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/experimental/gitops/image-scan-task.yaml): The `image-scan-task` task initiates a container scan of the image published by the `build-push-task` using OpenSCAP. The results of the scan are published in the logs of the task.

The [deploy-kustomize-pl.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/experimental/gitops/deploy-kustomize-pl.yaml)pipeline leverages the [deploy-kustomize-task.yaml](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/pipelines/experimental/gitops/deploy-kustomize-task.yaml) task to trigger a deployment to the environment configured in the GitOps repository.

## Before running pipelines

Before you run a pipeline, a number of tasks might be required. These tasks are covered in the following sections.

### Associating pipelines with application stacks in the Kabanero custom resource

The pipelines can be associated with an application stack in the Kabanero custom resource definition (CRD). Use the examples shown to update your configuration.

* Events pipelines

    When the product operator activates the Kabanero CRD, it associates the pipelines in the pipelines archive with each of the stacks in the stack hub. The default pipelines are intended to work with all the stacks in the stack hub in the previous example. When the operator activates all the pipeline resources (such as the tasks, trigger bindings, and pipelines) in the archive, it adds a suffix to the name of the resource with the shorted digest of the pipelines archive. This configuration provides an easy way to have multiple versions of the same pipeline to be active on the cluster.
    
    Example:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: kabanero.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Kabanero
    metadata:
      name: kabanero
    spec:
      version: "0.9.0"
      stacks:
        repositories:
        - name: central
          https:
            url: https://github.com/kabanero-io/collections/releases/download/0.9.0/kabanero-index.yaml
        pipelines:
        - id: default
          sha256: 14d59b7ebae113c18fb815c2ccfd8a846c5fbf91d926ae92e0017ca5caf67c95
          https:
            url: https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/releases/download/0.9.0/kabanero-events-pipelines.tar.gz
    ```

* Incubator pipelines

    When the product operator activates the CRD, it associates the pipelines in the pipelines archive with each of the stacks in the stack hub. The default pipelines are intended to work with all the stacks in the stack hub in the previous example. All of the pipeline-related resources (such as the tasks, trigger bindings, and pipelines) prefix the name of the resource with the keyword `StackId`. When the operator activates these resources, it replaces the keyword with the name of the stack it is activating. These are the default set of pipelines activated when you install the `default.yaml` Kabanero CR.
    
    Example:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: kabanero.io/v1alpha2
    kind: Kabanero
    metadata:
      name: kabanero
      namespace: kabanero
    spec:
      version: "0.9.0"
      stacks:
        repositories:
        - name: central
          https:
            url: https://github.com/kabanero-io/stacks/releases/download/0.9.0/kabanero-index.yaml
        pipelines:
        - id: default
          sha256: 14d59b7ebae113c18fb815c2ccfd8a846c5fbf91d926ae92e0017ca5caf67c95
          https:
            url: https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/releases/download/0.9.0/default-kabanero-pipelines.tar.gz
    ```

* Experimental gitops pipelines (Tech Preview)

You can use the experimental GitOps pipelines when you want to use Tekton Webhooks to drive GitOps actions in pipelines. Unlike the other pipelines, the GitOps pipelines are not associated with individual stacks, but are instead scoped to the instance in order to build, promote, and deploy all the stacks. Because they are scoped to the instance, they must be specified in the Kabanero CR, in the `gitops / pipelines` section.
    
    Example:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: kabanero.io/v1alpha2
    kind: Kabanero
    metadata:
      name: kabanero
      namespace: kabanero
    spec:
      version: "0.9.0"
      gitops:
        pipelines:
          - id: gitops-pipelines
            sha256: 683e8a05482a166ad4d76b6358227d3807a66e7edd8bc80483d6a88bca6c4095
            https:
              url: https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/releases/download/0.9.0/kabanero-gitops-pipelines.tar.gz
      stacks:
        repositories:
        - name: central
          https:
            url: https://github.com/kabanero-io/stacks/releases/download/0.9.0/kabanero-index.yaml
    ```
    
### Creating and updating your own tasks and pipelines

The default tasks and pipelines can be updated by forking the Kabanero Pipelines repository and editing the files under `pipelines/`. An easy way to generate the archive for use by the Kabanero CRD is to run the [package.sh](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/ci/package.sh) script from the root directory of the pipelines project. The script generates the archive files with the necessary pipeline artifacts and a `manifest.yaml` file that describes the contents of the archive. It generates the pipelines archive file under `ci/assests`. It generates separate archives for the legacy incubator pipelines, events pipelines, and the experimental GitOps pipelines.

Alternatively, you can run the Travis build against a release of your pipelines repository, which also generates the archive file with a `manifest.yaml` file and attaches it to your release.

For more detailed instructions, see [Curating Pipelines](../curating-pipelines/curating-pipelines.html)

<!--
// =================================================================================================
// Using stacks that are published to internal and private registries by pipelines
// =================================================================================================
-->

### Using stacks published to internal and private registries in pipelines

If you are publishing your application stack images to any registry other than Docker hub, you can specify your custom registry when you initialize a stack by using the `--stack-registry` option in the `appsody init` command.  Specifying a custom registry updates the stack name in the `.appsody-config.yaml` to include the registry information that is consumed by the pipeline.

<!--
// =================================================================================================
// Transport layer security (TLS) verification for image registry access in pipelines
// =================================================================================================
-->
### Transport layer security (TLS) verification for image registry access in pipelines

When accessing image registries to pull and push images, pipelines use the configuration the user established in the cluster resource, [image.config.openshift.io/cluster](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.2/openshift_images/image-configuration.html#images-configuration-file_image-configuration).  Scenarios are presented of image registries that can be used and the setup steps required.

#### Enable TLS verification for Private image registries:


If you use a private image registry and your registry uses certificates that are signed by trusted CA authorities, no further configuration is needed to enable TLS verification. Review the default truststore on the nodes of your cluster to ensure that you have the CA of your certificate in the list. With self-signed certificates, you must ensure that the CA certificate is added to the appropriate config map. Use the steps that follow to add the CA to the appropriate configmap.

 - Ensure that you have access to the ca.crt files for your private registries.

 - Use the instructions for [adding certificate authorities to the cluster](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/builds/setting-up-trusted-ca.html#configmap-adding-ca_setting-up-trusted-ca) to create a configmap with the `key` as your private registry `hostname` and value as the content of your private registry `ca.crt` file. This configmap must be present in the `openshift-config` namespace.

##### Enable TLS verification for Internal OpenShift image registry external routes

When you use the internal OpenShift image registry that is provided in your OCP cluster and want to access it using the external route,

- Run an `oc patch` command to enable the default external route when you do not have the external route setup for your internal image registry on your cluster.

```
oc patch configs.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io/cluster --type merge -p '{"spec":{"defaultRoute":true}}'
```

- Run the `oc get` command to verify that you have the external route and check `externalRegistryHostnames` in the output.

```
oc get image.config.openshift.io/cluster -o yaml
```
Sample output
```
# oc get image.config.openshift.io/cluster -o yaml
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: Image
metadata:
  annotations:
    release.openshift.io/create-only: "true"
  creationTimestamp: "2020-03-24T16:34:58Z"
  generation: 11
  name: cluster
  resourceVersion: "8570660"
  selfLink: /apis/config.openshift.io/v1/images/cluster
  uid: 7ba0dae1-c579-4adf-828d-44b0c3652bae
spec: {}
status:
  externalRegistryHostnames:
  - default-route-openshift-image-registry.apps.incult.os.fyre.ibm.com
  internalRegistryHostname: image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000
```

- Once you have the external route set up, you can find the ca certificate value for the external route hostname by following these steps from the cluster.

```
oc get configmap  -n openshift-image-registry

NAME                          DATA   AGE
image-registry-certificates   2      7d
serviceca                     1      7d
trusted-ca                    1      7d
[root@rugger-inf ~]#

```
  From the results of this command, try to search the content of configmap `image-registry-certificates` to find the relevant external route certificate.

- Once you get the certifiate value for internal image registry external route from previous step, use the steps in section, [Private image registries](https://github.com/kabanero-io/guides/blob/master/publish/working-with-pipelines/working-with-pipelines.md#private-image-registries) to create a configmap in `openshift-config` namespace with the `key` as your internal registry external route as `hostname` and value as the content of your external route certificate value.

#### Disable TLS verification for image registry access

If your private or internal registry does not have a valid TLS certificate or supports only HTTP connections, you must configure your cluster differently by disabling TLS verification first to allow pulling images from this registry. Use the `oc patch` command with your registry to accomplish this. If you use the `oc path` command for multiple image registries, the registry URL entries must be separated by commas.

```
oc patch --type=merge --patch='{
 "spec": {
   "registrySources": {
     "insecureRegistries": [
       "<registry>", "abc.com" , "pqr.com"
     ]
   }
 }
}' image.config.openshift.io/cluster

```

**NOTE:** When accessing the internal registry using the internal route, the pipelines disable TLS verification by default.


<!--
// =================================================================================================
// Running pipelines
// =================================================================================================
-->

## Running pipelines

Explore how to use pipelines to build and manage application stacks.

### Prerequisites

1. [Kabanero foundation](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-foundation) must be installed on a supported Kubernetes deployment.

1. A persistent volume must be configured. See the **Getting started** section for details.

1. Secrets for the GitHub repository (if private) and image repository

### Getting started

Follow these steps:

1. Set up a persistent volume to run pipelines

   Pipelines require a configured volume that is used by the framework to share data across tasks.  The pipeline run creates a Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) with a requirement for five GB of persistent volume.

   - Static persistent volumes

      If you are not running your cluster on a public cloud, you can set up a static persistent volume using NFS. For an example of how to use static persistent volume provisioning, see [Static persistent volumes](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/docs/VolumeProvisioning.md#static-persistent-volumes).

   - Dynamic volume provisioning

      If you run your cluster on a public cloud, you can set up a dynamic persistent volume by using your cloud provider’s default storage class. For an example of how to use dynamic persistent volume provisioning, see [Dynamic volume provisioning](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/docs/VolumeProvisioning.md#dynamic-volume-provisioning).

1. Create secrets

   Git secrets must be created in the `kabanero` namespace and associated with the service account that runs the pipelines. To configure secrets using the pipelines dashboard, see [Create secrets](https://kabanero.io/docs/ref/general/configuration/tekton-webhooks.html#create-secrets).

   Alternatively, you can [configure secrets in the Kubernetes console or set them up by using the Kubernetes CLI](https://docs.okd.io/latest/dev_guide/secrets.html#creating-secrets).

### Running pipelines by using the Kabanero events operator webhooks

You can create an organization webhook to automatically drive the pipelines based on events in the GitHub repo. Events such as commits, tagging, or pull requests can be set to automatically trigger pipeline runs. Follow the instructions in the Integrating events operator guide to set up your webhook.

### Running pipelines by using the Tekton pipelines dashboard webhook extension

You can use the [pipelines dashboard webhook extension](https://github.com/tektoncd/experimental/blob/master/webhooks-extension/docs/GettingStarted.md) to drive pipelines that automatically build and deploy an application whenever you update the code in your GitHub repository. Events such as commits or pull requests can be set up to automatically trigger pipeline runs.

### Running pipelines by using a script

If you are developing a new pipeline and want to test it in a tight loop, you can use a script or manually drive the pipeline.

1. Log in to your cluster. For example,

   ```shell
   oc login <master node IP>:8443
   ```

1. Clone the pipelines repository:

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines
   ```

1. Run this script with the appropriate parameters:

   ```shell
   cd ./pipelines/sample-helper-files/./manual-pipeline-run-script.sh -r [git_repo of the Appsody project] -i [docker registery path of the image to be created] -c [application stack name of which pipeline to be run]"
   ```

   - When using the dockerhub container registry:

      ```shell
       ./manual-pipeline-run-script.sh -r https://github.com/mygitid/appsody-test-project -i index.docker.io/mydockeid/my-java-openliberty-image -c java-openliberty"
      ```

   - When using the local OpenShift container registry:

      ```shell
       ./manual-pipeline-run-script.sh -r https://github.com/mygitid/appsody-test-project -i docker-registry.default.svc:5000/kabanero/my-java-openliberty-image -c java-openliberty"
      ```

### Running pipelines manually from the command line

Follow these steps to run a pipeline directly from the command line:

1. Login to your cluster. For example,

   ```shell
   oc login <master node IP>:8443
   ```

1. Clone the pipelines repo.

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines
   cd kabanero-pipelines
   ```

1. Create pipeline resources.

   Use the `pipeline-resource-template.yaml` file to create the `PipelineResources`. The `pipeline-resource-template.yaml` is provided in the pipelines [/pipelines/sample-helper-files](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/tree/master/pipelines/sample-helper-files) directory. Update the docker-image URL. You can use the sample GitHub repository or update it to point to your own GitHub repository.

1. After you update the file, apply it as shown in this example:

   ```shell
   oc apply -f <stack-name>-pipeline-resources.yaml
   ```

### Activating tasks and pipelines

The installations that activate the featured application stacks also activate the tasks and pipelines. If you are creating a new task or pipeline, activate it manually, as shown in this example:

```shell
oc apply -f <task.yaml>
oc apply -f <pipeline.yaml>
```

### Running the pipeline

A sample `manual-pipeline-run-template.yaml` file is provided in the [/pipelines/sample-helper-files](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/tree/master/pipelines/sample-helper-files) directory. Rename the template file to a name of your choice (for example, pipeline-run.yaml), and update the file to replace `application-stack-name` with the name of your application stack. After you update the file, run it as shown in this example:

```shell
oc apply -f <application-stack-name>-pipeline-run.yaml
```

<!--
// =================================================================================================
// Checking the status of the pipeline run
// =================================================================================================
-->

### Checking the status of the pipeline run

You can check the status of the pipeline run from the Kubernetes console, command line, or pipelines dashboard.

#### Checking pipeline run status from the pipelines dashboard

1. Log in to the pipelines dashboard and click `Pipeline runs` in the sidebar menu.

1. Find your pipeline run in the list and click it to check the status and find logs. You can see logs and status for each step and task.

#### Checking pipeline run status from the command line

Enter the following command in the terminal:

```shell
oc get pipelineruns
oc -n kabanero describe pipelinerun.tekton.dev/<pipeline-run-name>
```

You can also see pods for the pipeline runs, for which you can specify `oc describe` and `oc logs` to get more details.

If the pipeline run was successful, you can see a Docker image in our Docker registry and a pod that is running your application.


<!--
// =================================================================================================
// Troubleshooting
// =================================================================================================
-->

## Troubleshooting

To find solutions for common issues and troubleshoot problems with pipelines, see the [Pipelines Troubleshooting Guide](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines/blob/master/docs/Troubleshooting.md).

### Related links

- [Pipelines repository](https://github.com/kabanero-io/kabanero-pipelines)
- [Pipeline tutorial](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/blob/master/docs/tutorial.md)
